.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/enhancement.md, before:

---
name: Enhancement template
about: Used to request enhancements for llama.cpp
labels: ["enhancement"]
assignees: ''

---

# Prerequisites

Please answer the following questions for yourself before submitting an issue.

- [ ] I am running the latest code. Development is very rapid so there are no tagged versions as of now.
- [ ] I carefully followed the [README.md](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/blob/master/README.md).
- [ ] I [searched using keywords relevant to my issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/filtering-and-searching-issues-and-pull-requests) to make sure that I am creating a new issue that is not already open (or closed).
- [ ] I reviewed the [Discussions](https://github.com/ggerganov/llama.cpp/discussions), and have a new bug or useful enhancement to share.

# Feature Description

Please provide a detailed written description of what you were trying to do, and what you expected `llama.cpp` to do as an enhancement.

# Motivation

Please provide a detailed written description of reasons why this feature is necessary and how it is useful to `llama.cpp` users.

# Possible Implementation

If you have an idea as to how it can be implemented, please write a detailed description. Feel free to give links to external sources or share visuals that might be helpful to understand the details better.

Commit message:

Update issue templates of PowerInfer (#90)
* Create issue template for general questions

* Update bug.md

* Update enhancement.md

* Update bug.md

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/enhancement.md, after:

---
name: Enhancement template
about: Used to request enhancements for PowerInfer
labels: ["enhancement"]
assignees: ''

---

# Prerequisites

Before submitting your issue, please ensure the following:

- [ ] I am running the latest version of PowerInfer. Development is rapid, and as of now, there are no tagged versions.
- [ ] I have carefully read and followed the instructions in the [README.md](https://github.com/SJTU-IPADS/PowerInfer/blob/main/README.md).
- [ ] I [searched using keywords relevant to my issue](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/filtering-and-searching-issues-and-pull-requests) to make sure that I am creating a new issue that is not already open (or closed).

# Feature Description

Please provide a detailed written description of what you were trying to do, and what you expected PowerInfer to do as an enhancement.

# Motivation

Please provide a detailed written description of reasons why this feature is necessary and how it is useful to PowerInfer users.

# Possible Implementation

If you have an idea as to how it can be implemented, please write a detailed description. Feel free to give links to external sources or share visuals that might be helpful to understand the details better.
